#####################################################
README FOR ELIAS MARCOPOULOS' COMP 20 GIT RESPOSITORY
#####################################################

This repository was created to store all of the labs and assignments I had to complete while I was taking COMP 20, Web Programming, in Spring 2016 at Tufts University under the instruction of Professor Ming Chow. The point of writing the code stored in this repository was thereby for me to gain knowledge in how the Web works.

My favorite lab during COMP 20 was the responsive programming lab, because it was fun to expand and shrink the browser window and see a comic strip continuing along or regressing in its plot line. I also enjoyed the monotonous conditionals that went into this lab. It was very repetitive, and to me that was indicative of the pain it is to responsively code for many different web platforms (i.e. mobile, desktop, tablet). 

I think that since day one of the course I have learned an extensive amount of information. Previously, I knew nothing about any web related languages, and now I can code in HTML5, JavaScript, and CSS. Learning three new languages in one semester is an impressive feat, in my opinion, and I am quite proud of it. On top of that I have also learned to use GitHub, Heroku, and MongoDB. I have also learned to read the terrible documentation that is associated with many web related interfaces, which I think is hard to do. In essence, the knowledge I have gained from Comp 20 is much larger than can be expected from a one semester course, and I think I have grown substantially as a programmer.

The most important thing I learned in this course is that the web is entirely event driven. When computers are communicating, there is no set amount of time between sending a request and receiving a response, so there is no way to write code linearly for a web app. Thus, without understanding asynchronous coding and callback functions, it is impossible to actually code a web app. When coding the landmarks server (assignment 3), a common problem was that if one wrote code linearly querying the database and then responding to the client, then often a query to the mongo database would not have responded before the response was sent to the client resulting in an empty response. By using callback functions the response is only sent after the query occurs, which ensures the workability of the web app. Even in client side web applications this asynchronality is important to account for, because one cannot predict wen a user will click a button, like the play button for a video. In the my_old_kentucky_home lab, a video was played and the goal was to have lyrics appear beside the video. There is no way to predict how a user will press play or pause the video, and thus the only information the programmer has is that when the video is playing the time will update. This update is an event that is asynchronous, and without understanding asynchronality one cannot have correctly displayed lyrics for an unpredictable video streaming.

Now that I am finished with the course, I really would like to understand more about how game designers deploy their games over the web. Throughout my life I have always been a fan of simple web flash games, and I would love to learn how to make my own and how game servers work. I have considered making my own server to host flash games on, just as a hobby, and this class has definitely given me all the tools I need to get started on that venture. So now with my strong basis in web programming I feel I can teach myself more about web development for games, which is what made me interested in the class in the first place! I am sure I will need to learn a lot more about both client side and server side to be able to host games, and so I guess I would really like to delve into both front end and backend.

I would really like to give all of the credit of all of the above accomplishments to Ming Chow, the fantastic professor of Comp 20. Without him teaching me, I would not be able to say that I learned anything about web this semester, and so I would like to say thank you to him for all he has done.